BZ2023838: Adds better explanation of SCCs (#39717)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/security-context-constraints-about.adoc

Security context constraints allow an administrator to control:

* Whether a pod can run privileged containers (allowPrivilegedContainer)

> * Whether a pod is constrained by `no_new_privs` (allowPrivilegeEscalation)

Author: @dbaker-rh could you please pitch in and clarify @ctauchen questions.

> * Whether a pod is constrained by `no_new_privs` (allowPrivilegeEscalation)

Reviewer: What I added here was clarification ... before it just says "... can run privileged containers", but there are TWO separate and distinct flags within the SCC that have the word "privilege" in the name.

This change suggested to remove confusion over privilege vs privileged.  If it's done the opposite then I would suggest rewording to something more generic to cover both flags and then qualify them later.

For instance:

* What privileges the containers within the pod may be granted.

> * Whether a pod is constrained by `no_new_privs` (allowPrivilegeEscalation)

Author: @dbaker-rh and @ctauchen I have restructured the bulleted lists. Does it makes sense? 

- Whether a pod can run privileged containers with `allowPrivilegedContainer` flag.

- Whether a `no_new_privs` pod is constrained with `allowPrivilegeEscalation` flag.

> * Whether a pod is constrained by `no_new_privs` (allowPrivilegeEscalation)

Reviewer 2: I think this is an improvement from what's there, for sure. Would add "the" before the flag name.

> * Whether a pod is constrained by `no_new_privs` (allowPrivilegeEscalation)

Author: @ctauchen Fixed!

[WARNING]
====

> This SCC allows host access to namespaces, file systems, and PIDs. It should only be used by trusted pods. Grant with caution.

Reviewer: My change here was simply to drop capitalization on the S.

If we're going to reword this better I think the whole sentence could be constructed better - PIDs is a namespace, but it 's somewhat confusing to refer to this as having "host access to ... the pid namespace".

> This SCC allows host access to namespaces, file systems, and PIDs. It should only be used by trusted pods. Grant with caution.

Author: @ctauchen I checked our repo and couldn't find anywhere PIDs spelled out. It is mentioned as PID.

[NOTE]
====

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not necessarily select the `privileged` SCC. The SCC which has `allowPrivilegedContainer: true` and has the highest prioritization will be chosen if the user has the permission to use it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not necessarily select the `privileged` SCC. The SCC that has `allowPrivilegedContainer: true` and has the highest prioritization will be chosen if the user has the permissions to use it.
```

Author: @ctauchen I will fix it. Thanks

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: sure. I will make this change.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: In my opinion, mentioning ``However, setting `privileged: true`` is necessary because it's a key-value pair and also user may get confused if we mention this in singular third person pronoun. 

Also if you see the previous version of the documentation, it starts with ``setting `privileged: true``.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87811193/145963062-e0d191f0-c131-4378-a6cc-0d1646b2a09b.png)

Let me know your thoughts on this.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer 3: "However" doesn't seem to justify the importance of the words that follow,  if that makes any sense, could be considered just a nit.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer: Instead of nit picking this wording, we can rephrase it entirely to see if it reads more clearly.

For example:

Setting privileged: true in the pod specification does not necessarily select the privileged SCC.  The most appropriate SCC (of which the privileged SCC is one by default) which has "allowPrivilegedContainer: true" will be chosen if the user has permission to use it.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer 3: > Instead of nit picking this wording, we can rephrase it entirely to see if it reads more clearly.
> 
> For example:
> 
> Setting privileged: true in the pod specification does not necessarily select the privileged SCC. The most appropriate SCC (of which the privileged SCC is one by default) which has "allowPrivilegedContainer: true" will be chosen if the user has permission to use it.

👍 Just a minor edit

Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not necessarily select the `privileged` SCC. The most appropriate SCC containing "allowPrivilegedContainer: true" will be selected if the user has permission to use it.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer: Yes!  Your reword of my rephrase is ALMOST perfect, and very close to my original intent.

The problem is that if you take a regular workload and just throw "privileged: true" at it, you're actually (from experience) more likely to get admitted through the "node-exporter" SCC, and not privilged SCC at all.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer 3: Agreed, how about

Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not necessarily select the `privileged` SCC. The most appropriate SCC containing `"allowPrivilegedContainer: true"` (out of which the `privileged` SCC is one by default) will be selected if the user has permission to use it.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: @y4sht We usually avoid putting content in parenthesis because users tend to ignore the content in parenthesis. There are exceptions like when expanding abbreviations, SI units.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer 4: @xingxingxia suggested
Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not necessarily select the `privileged` SCC. The most appropriate SCC which has `"allowPrivilegedContainer: true"` will be chosen if the user has permission to use it. The prioritization section of this documentation determines which one is the most appropriate.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer: I think this phrasing is great.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: @l4zy0n3 
I didn't understand this:
`The prioritization section of this documentation determines which one is the most appropriate. ?`
Is this an explanation or you want to include this as well ?

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer 3: Yes, it would be great if we could add this explaination, it makes the phrasing much clearer.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: @y4sht The prioritization section of this documentation - - which section you're referring to ? I wanna give cross-reference to that section.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer: It's here https://deploy-preview-39717--osdocs.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/authentication/managing-security-context-constraints.html#scc-prioritization_configuring-internal-oauth

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer: (and it has a REALLY weird anchor tag name.  Should just be #scc-prioritization I think, but if it's being linked to from elsewhere we don't want to break those links)

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: @dbaker-rh i feel it's better not to touch anchor tags. As you mentioned it might break if it's reference somewhere else.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: @y4sht @dbaker-rh @xingxingxia I can't cross reference **Security context constraints prioritization** section because it's a part of  **About security context constraints** module. In our doc repo we have defined rule that we can't reference reference module in a module.

Let me give a more context on why we can't cross-reference module in a module -- explained by one of our DPM .
Having xref in a module, it breaks the contract of a module. It is no longer a module if it taking you to somewhere else, and that was one of the reasons this rule was put into place.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: @y4sht @dbaker-rh expect cross reference, I have made the other changes. Please let me know if there's any other way we can put this up.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: @y4sht PTAL and let me know your feedback.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Reviewer 3: @darshan-nagaraj what about
The SCC which has `allowPrivilegedContainer: true` and has the highest prioritization will be chosen if the user has the permission to use it.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: @y4sht Yes, makes sense. I will make the changes.

> Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. However, setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification considers only those SCCs that have a match on their `allowPrivilegedContainer` field, of which the `privileged` SCC is one.

Author: @y4sht Changes updated. PTAL and if it's okay for you give me QA ack. Thanks

====
endif::[]

|`restricted`

> |Denies access to all host features and requires pods to be run with a UID, and SELinux context that are allocated to the namespace.  This is the most restrictive default SCC and it is used by default for authenticated users.

Reviewer 2: I suspect that "default" isn't the right word. We can't have multiple defaults for the same thing, right?

Perhaps you mean something closer to standard, prebuilt, preset?

Author: @dbaker-rh could you please pitch in and clarify @ctauchen question.

Reviewer: Yes.  This phrase, however inaccurate, is used in our own docs already: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/authentication/managing-security-context-constraints.html#default-sccs_configuring-internal-oauth

"The cluster contains several **default security context constraints** (SCCs) as described in the table below."

The intent of my change was to separate "most restrictive possible" (as is implied) from "most restrictive if you've not made any changes" (which is true).

To take a bash at rephrasing this:

>> ... This is the most restrictive SCC provided by a new installation and will be used by default for authenticated users.

If that gets too convoluted then leaving in it's mildly inaccurate current state might be better than explaining it to death.

Reviewer 2: Ok, we'll go with the usage from the docs. I like that phrasing: 

This is the most restrictive SCC provided by a new installation and will be used by default for authenticated users.

Author: @ctauchen Done!

* Requires that a pod is run with a pre-allocated MCS label
* Allows pods to use any FSGroup
* Allows pods to use any supplemental group

[NOTE]
====

> The `restricted` SCC still configures `allowPrivilegeEscalation: true`, which disables the `no_new_privs` protection. If you want to prevent this in your cluster, you can create a custom SCC with the flag disabled and configure the access to only appropriate users in place of `restricted`. For more details about flag, see link:https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/userspace-api/no_new_privs.html[The Linux Kernel documentation].

Reviewer 2: I get confused from "If you want to prevent this in your cluster". What is "this"? Configuring the first key? Disabling the second? Both? 

It's also not clear exactly what "the flag" refers to. Can you make all of this explicit?

Author: @dbaker-rh need your suggestion here.

Reviewer: edit: ... which disables the "no_new_privs" protection flag.

edit: ... if you want the additional protection from disabling no_new_privs, you can create ...

> The `restricted` SCC still configures `allowPrivilegeEscalation: true`, which disables the `no_new_privs` protection flag. If you want an additional protection from disabling `no_new_privs`, you can create a custom SCC with the flag disabled and configure the access to only appropriate users in place of `restricted`. For more details about flag, see link:https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/userspace-api/no_new_privs.html[The Linux Kernel documentation].

Reviewer 2: I'm not confident I understand this. Particularly the second sentence. Perhaps this is worth making clearer?

If you want an additional protection from disabling `no_new_privs`,(meaning: if you want most of what you get in `restricted`, but with `no_new_privs` enabled?) you can create a custom SCC with the flag (which flag?) disabled and configure the access to only appropriate users _in place of `restricted`_(what is `restricted` in place of? users?)

Reviewer 2: Perhaps something like this:

````
[NOTE]
====
In the `restricted` SCC, `allowPrivilegeEscalation` is set to `true`, which disables the `no_new_privs` protection flag. If you want to enable `no_new_privs` and use an SCC that is similar to the `restricted` SCC, you can create a custom SCC that uses the same configuration but with `allowPrivilegeEscalation` is set to `true`.
````
Since the note isn't about `no_new_privs`, but rather about how to enable it with a restricted security context, I suggest we leave out the external link.

Reviewer 2: @dbaker-rh This version is clearer, but may be inaccurate. Can you confirm this is right? Thanks!
